#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 1in
\topmargin 1in
\rightmargin 1in
\bottommargin 1in
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section
Motivation
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The UC Berkeley Non-lethal Projectiles lab has developed a simplified human
 torso model consisting of a 
\begin_inset Formula $\approx$
\end_inset

10” diameter and 7” tall silicone block with a single piezo pressure sensor
 embedded 1” from the surface and centered along the vertical axis.
 The setup is currently being used to test the impact pressure of non-lethal
 silicone projectiles (fired at 
\begin_inset Formula $\approx$
\end_inset

300ft/s).
 The goal is to transition this experimental setup to test (sports) chest
 protectors with the hope of developing a standard for chest protector validatio
n.
 Sports such as motocross already have standard acceleration based protective
 gear testing methods.
 Other injury testing, such as automotive and aviation, utilize acceleration
 as the unit of measure as well.
 It is desirable to have similar acceleration data for comparison on top
 of the pressure data.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Mission
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Internal organ damage occurs as a result of the pressure wave that translates
 through the body as a result of blunt force trauma.
 The same principal applies to acceleration.
 Hence, measurement of the acceleration throughout the entire body as a
 result of the pressure wave would be more informational than just surface
 acceleration.
 Our goal then is to determine a method to accurately measure the “acceleration
 wave” of a deformable silicone body from high speed impacts.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Literature review
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Experimental Background
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Roberts, Merkle, et al.
 present one of many research findings regarding the possible injuries that
 a human body can sustain from a non-penetrating trauma.
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "roberts2007computational"

\end_inset

 The UC Berkeley Non-Lethal Projectiles Lab builds upon these findings in
 an effort to develop non-penetrating bullets that temporarily incapacitate,
 but do not injure, intended targets.
 The current test setup consists of a stationary valve actuated projectile
 launcher powered by a 2200 psi helium tank.
 The barrell is aimed at the center of a torso surrogate placed on a wooden
 stand roughly ___ft away from the end of the ___ft barrell.
 The whole system is bolted to a steel table encased in bulletproof plexiglass.
 A ProChrono Digital Chronograph is placed on a plastic stand between the
 end of the barrel and the block to measure projectile velocity.
 An ABAQUS model has been created modeling a quarter of the torso and projectile
 impacting (assumed symmetry).
 The model is currently being used to extract pressure and deflection data
 of various uniform projectiles.
 It should be noted that this model is outdated as the silicone material
 has been changed and the torso is no longer placed inside of a punching
 bag but rather on top of a wooden stand.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Shadowgraphy
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Photoelasticity
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Digital image correlation and particle tracking
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Photogrammetry
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Using visual data to acquire physical properties of subjects has long been
 used in crash testing with automobiles and the test dummies placed within.
 Photogrammetric markers such as high contrast dots are placed on the subject
 and then visually tracked (usually) during post processing.
 In these cases, because of the large scale of the testing, it is sometimes
 difficult to accurately track objects that cover relatively small areas
 of the image (i.e.
 test dummy head).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Work has been done in Germany testing the use of features present in the
 texture of objects rather than photogrammetric markers to an acceptable
 margin of error for crash testing (<10mm in each axis).
 This system uses computer software that predicts positioning for the current
 frame by matching texture patches between the current and last frames.
 Work has also been done by the Ford Motor Company and Kineticorp in building
 computer generated models of test scenarios using photogrammetric methods
 and then using the computer generated model to deduct physical properties
 of interest.
 In this particular instance, pre-record roll test video was overlaid on
 a 3D Studio Max model to virtually replicate the roll test.
 Positioning data was then extracted from the model and analyzed for roll
 angle and roll velocity and compared to sensor data.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
More specific to our mission, work has been done at Trinity University measuring
 3D acceleration with videogrammetry.
 Video from three visually synchronized cameras and commercially-available
 video software were used to locate points of interest on a modal shaker
 in 3D space.
 The positioning data was then filtered and differentiated to obtain acceleratio
n data comparable to those experimentally obtained using accelerometers.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Research Plan
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Process
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Photogrammetry
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Photogrammetry is the process of utilizing photographic images to determine
 geometric properties of an object.
 It can be used to place objects in three dimensional space only using two
 dimensional imaging.
 It is currently being used in automotive (recreation) crash testing to
 track car deformation.
 The information can then be used to determine energy at impact and thus
 speed of impact.
 There has also been work done using videogrammetry to measure acceleration
 and track locations of interest during motion tests.
 We will be using similar techniques to measure the acceleration of the
 silicone torso surrogate.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Block Preparation
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We will be using a pre-existing cylindrical silicone block as our torso
 model.
 We will then use a syringe to inject small beads of dye in a grid pattern
 along the half plane of the cylinder to the best of our abilities.
 Since there is only one high speed camera available for use, the grid of
 beads will be spread in two dimensions only with the grid plane perpendicular
 to the flat faces of the cylinder.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Experimental Setup 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The projectile firing mechanism is mounted in a plexiglass cage for safety.
 The camera will be mounted outside the cage at a viewing angle flat to
 the midplane of the block.
 External lighting will be arranged to provide optimal contrast.
 A ruler will be hung directly over the grid of beads to serve as the reference
 for our measurements.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Testing 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Three separate deformation tests will be performed: Static loading for validatio
n- using a constant force applicator or prescribed mass system to determine
 the displacement profile of the beads in a static loading situation.
 Moderate impact speed and large mass projectile (i.e.
 baseball) High impact speed and low mass projectile (i.e.
 silicone bullet) 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Post Processing and Data Analysis 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We will be utilizing an existing program that will track individual bead
 displacements and automatically calculate relevant parameters.
 Alternatively, we can use video editing software such as Adobe Premiere
 to selectively single out frames of impact, analyze displacements, and
 perform the necessary calculations.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Equipment 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The camera we will be using is the Casio EXILIM Pro EX-F1.
 It is capable of capturing 60 fps at full resolution (1920x1080), 300 fps
 at 512x384, 600 fsp at 432x192, and 1200 fps at 336x96.
 The firing equipment will be the same custom-built pressure launcher used
 in the Non-Lethal Projectiles Lab as detailed in the literature review.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
FEA
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Anticipated Results 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Ideal 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The camera capture rate and resolution are predetermined and in the ideal
 case, we will be also be able to accurately control the position and size
 of the beads we will be tracking.
 Our end goal is to accurately capture the maximum speed of the projectile,
 the impact duration, projectile deformation, and the displacement of the
 beads over time.
 It is assumed that this data will then allow us to accurately deduct the
 acceleration wave moving through the torso surrogate.
 An interest field of four times the diameter of the projectile (0.75”) has
 been chosen as it should sufficiently span the volume of silicone that
 will deform as a result of the impacts.
 Placing 15 points of interest (aka beads) along the sensitive axis means
 0.2” increments between each bead.
 This has been deemed a realistic resolution based on our techniques/tools
 and human limitations.
 These beads will be centered on the half plane, the target location of
 the projectiles.
 Assuming a conservative experimental system resolution estimate of ⅕ of
 v_max (of the body), the minimum displacement we will be able to measure
 is v_max*delta_t, where t is time in seconds.
 Resolution=vmax51fps=vmaxt The baseball, traveling at 88ft/s max will result
 in a 0.18” resolution.
 At this resolution, the highest fps, and with the field of interest stated
 above, we will effectively have 3-4 pixels to locate the particle (per
 pixel position error) during video processing.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Areas of Concern 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Video Capture Speed
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
While the resolution of the system based on the above assumptions will be
 sufficent for the first two tests (static loading and baseball impact),
 it may not be for the high velocity of the silicone bullet.
 We are hoping that because we are using a very conservative estimate of
 ⅕ of the maximum velocity, the real resolution of the system will be enough
 to capture high velocity impacts.
 We will be able to experimentally test the resolution of the system once
 the experimental setup has been completed.
 If it is deemed to be insufficent, a higher resolution camera will need
 to be obtained in order to test the silicone bullets or the maximum speed
 reduced.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Small Deformations
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Related to the video capture speed is the actual amount of deformation the
 torso surrogate will experience as a result of the impacts.
 This is especially an issue with the small high velocity silicone bullets.
 The silicone torso is formulated to simulate human tissue, it is closer
 to the consistency of skin or muscle rather than other soft tissues like
 fat.
 As a result, the deformation it experiences as a result of such a small
 bullet may not be significant enough for the resolution of our system.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Recording Angle 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Our goal is to set up the camera perpendicular to the half plane so that
 there will be no visual distortion and hence accuracy due to a titled viewing
 angle.
 We currently have no method of testing this though and hence expect a degree
 of error.
 However, if we can place the measurement axis in line with the half plane
 then positioning will be relative and we expect no extensive error.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Grid Spacing 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Because of the limitations of our equipment and our own abilities, it is
 very likely that we will not be able to accurately control the spacing
 of our resultant bead grid and the individual bead sizes.
 However, we are assuming that perfect grid spacing and consistent bead
 sizing is not necessary because their positions are being tracked relative
 to each other and not in reference to an idealized mapping.
 Hence, as long as the beads are distinguishable from each other, our results
 will not be affected.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
FEA 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As with most finite element models, there is an error associated with analysis
 solutions and the [unknown] exact solution.
 Mesh grid size and shape, mesh structure, and boundary conditions and points
 of application are all examples of human-controlled factors that drive
 the output.
 There is always room for improvement in an FEA model; however, within the
 constraints of computational power accessible for this project, it is expected
 that the FEA solution will have an error much smaller than the resolution
 of the photogrammetry approach and thus be interpreted as a solid point
 of comparison.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Making a comparable model 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
There are inherently many difficulties in replicating the “perfect” scenario
 of a computer simulation when building the physical model, especially without
 the help of precise instruments.
 There is bound to be inconsistency within the silicone mix that affects
 local stress response at these points.
 A sweeping generalization of uniform material characteristics in the FEM
 completely ignores the inconsistencies, but it is nearly impossible to
 model the block down to the level of detail represented by the size of
 the mesh elements.
 Furthermore, it is an assumption that the location of the projectile strike
 on the silicone block precisely matches that of which is modeled on the
 computer, and that the grid of particles lie precisely on the half-plane
 of the block.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset CommandInset bibtex
LatexCommand bibtex
bibfiles "experimenttracking"
options "plain"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
